---
title: WSL下用VPN也连不github，是DNS的问题
published: true
---

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/troubleshooting#wsl-has-no-network-connectivity-once-connected-to-a-vpn


> WSL has no network connectivity once connected to a VPN
> If after connecting to a VPN on Windows, bash loses network connectivity, try this workaround from within bash. This workaround will allow you to manually override the DNS resolution through /etc/resolv.conf.
> 
> Take a note of the DNS server of the VPN from doing ipconfig.exe /all
> Make a copy of the existing resolv.conf sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf.new
> Unlink the current resolv.conf sudo unlink /etc/resolv.conf
> sudo mv /etc/resolv.conf.new /etc/resolv.conf
> Edit /etc/wsl.conf and add this content to the file. (More info on this set up can be found in Advanced settings configuration)
> 
> Copy
> [network]
> generateResolvConf=false
> Open /etc/resolv.conf and
> a. Delete the first line from the file which has a comment describing automatic generation
> b. Add the DNS entry from (1) above as the very first entry in the list of DNS servers.
> c. Close the file.
> Once you have disconnected the VPN, you will have to revert the changes to /etc/resolv.conf. To do this, do:
> 
> cd /etc
> sudo mv resolv.conf resolv.conf.new
> sudo ln -s ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf resolv.conf



基本意思就是连了VPN，WSL系统里的DNS解析文件resolve.conf是自动生成的，DNS还是原来的，要换VPN上用的。


结果我用的这个VPN，连上以后也还是用的原来的DNS。

所以，按上面的步骤，搞个新的resolv.conf，最上面一条填个8.8.8.8的就行了，断开vpn后也不用改回去。
