---
title: Linux PAM
published: true
---

正在看linux系统密码验证的部分，现在的问题是ubuntu系统是也用linux-pam，还是用自己shadow-4.5 package自带的功能。

LFS (Linux From Scratch)：
> Shadow was indeed installed in LFS and there is no reason to reinstall it unless you installed CrackLib or Linux-PAM after your LFS system was completed. If you have installed CrackLib after LFS, then reinstalling Shadow will enable strong password support. If you have installed Linux-PAM, reinstalling Shadow will allow programs such as login and su to utilize PAM. 

意思是说没有linux-pam，shadow包里的login什么的也能正常工作，但装了linux-pam就可以用更强壮的密码。



> Historically an application that has required a given user to be authenticated, has had to be compiled to use a specific authentication mechanism. For example, in the case of traditional UN*X systems, the identity of the user is verified by the user entering a correct password. This password, after being prefixed by a two character ``salt'', is encrypted (with crypt(3)). The user is then authenticated if this encrypted password is identical to the second field of the user's entry in the system password database (the /etc/passwd file). 
> 




> CRYPT(5)                                                          BSD File Formats Manual                                                         CRYPT(5)
> 
> ### NAME
>      crypt — storage format for hashed passphrases and available hashing methods
> 
> ### DESCRIPTION
>      The hashing methods implemented by crypt(3) are designed only to process user passphrases for storage and authentication; they are not suitable for
>      use as general-purpose cryptographic hashes.
> 
>      Passphrase hashing is not a replacement for strong passphrases.  It is always possible for an attacker with access to the hashed passphrases to guess
>      and check possible cleartext passphrases.  However, with a strong hashing method, guessing will be too slow for the attacker to discover a strong
>      passphrase.
> 
>      All of the hashing methods use a “salt” to perturb the hash function, so that the same passphrase may produce many possible hashes.  Newer methods
>      accept longer salt strings.  The salt should be chosen at random for each user.  Salt defeats a number of attacks:
> 
>      1.   It is not possible to hash a passphrase once and then test it against each account's stored hash; the hash calculation must be repeated for each
>           account.
> 
>      2.   It is not possible to tell whether two accounts use the same passphrase without successfully guessing one of the phrases.
> 
>      3.   Tables of precalculated hashes of commonly used passphrases must have an entry for each possible salt, which makes them impractically large.
> 
>      All of the hashing methods are also deliberately engineered to be slow; they use many iterations of an underlying cryptographic primitive to increase
>      the cost of each guess.  The newer hashing methods allow the number of iterations to be adjusted, using the “CPU time cost” parameter to
>      crypt_gensalt(3).  This makes it possible to keep the hash slow as hardware improves.
> 
> ### FORMAT OF HASHED PASSPHRASES
>      All of the hashing methods supported by crypt(3) produce a hashed passphrase which consists of four components: prefix, options, salt, and hash.  The
>      prefix controls which hashing method is to be used, and is the appropriate string to pass to crypt_gensalt(3) to select that method.  The contents of
>      options, salt, and hash are up to the method.  Depending on the method, the prefix and options components may be empty.
> 
>      The setting argument to crypt(3) must begin with the first three components of a valid hashed passphrase, but anything after that is ignored.  This
>      makes authentication simple: hash the input passphrase using the stored passphrase as the setting, and then compare the result to the stored
>      passphrase.
> 


>   md5crypt
>     A hash based on the MD5 algorithm, originally developed by Poul-Henning Kamp for FreeBSD.  Supported on most free
>     Unixes and newer versions of Solaris.  Not as weak as the DES-based hashes below, but MD5 is so cheap on modern hard‐
>     ware that it should not be used for new hashes.  CPU time cost is not adjustable.
>
>      Prefix
>          "$1$"
> 
>      Hashed passphrase format
>          \$1\$[^$]{1,8}\$[./0-9A-Za-z]{22}
> 
>      Maximum passphrase length
>          unlimited
> 
>      Hash size
>          128 bits
> 
>      Salt size
>          6 to 48 bits
> 
>      CPU time cost parameter
>          1000



>    sha512crypt
>      A hash based on SHA-2 with 512-bit output, originally developed by Ulrich Drepper for GNU libc.  Supported on Linux but not common elsewhere.  Ac‐
>      ceptable for new hashes.  The default CPU time cost parameter is 5000, which is too low for modern hardware.
> 
>      Prefix
>          "$6$"
> 
>      Hashed passphrase format
>          \$6\$(rounds=[1-9][0-9]+\$)?[./0-9A-Za-z]{1,16}\$[./0-9A-Za-z]{86}
> 
>      Maximum passphrase length
>          unlimited
> 
>      Hash size
>          512 bits
> 
>      Salt size
>          6 to 96 bits
> 
>      CPU time cost parameter
>          1000 to 999,999,999



比如这个crypt()，函数原型是这样。

`````c
     #include <crypt.h>

     char *
     crypt(const char *phrase, const char *setting);
`````

>      The crypt, crypt_r, crypt_rn, and crypt_ra functions irreversibly “hash” phrase for storage in the system password database (shadow(5)) using a cryp‐
>      tographic “hashing method.” The result of this operation is called a “hashed passphrase” or just a “hash.” Hashing methods are described in crypt(5).
> 
>      setting controls which hashing method to use, and also supplies various parameters to the chosen method, most importantly a random “salt” which en‐
>      sures that no two stored hashes are the same, even if the phrase strings are the same.


这个函数的源码再glibc里。

glibc/crypt/crypt-entry.c

`````c
char *
crypt (const char *key, const char *salt)
{
#ifdef _LIBC
  /* Try to find out whether we have to use MD5 encryption replacement.  */
  if (strncmp (md5_salt_prefix, salt, sizeof (md5_salt_prefix) - 1) == 0
      /* Let __crypt_r deal with the error code if FIPS is enabled.  */
      && !fips_enabled_p ())
    return __md5_crypt (key, salt);

  /* Try to find out whether we have to use SHA256 encryption replacement.  */
  if (strncmp (sha256_salt_prefix, salt, sizeof (sha256_salt_prefix) - 1) == 0)
    return __sha256_crypt (key, salt);

  /* Try to find out whether we have to use SHA512 encryption replacement.  */
  if (strncmp (sha512_salt_prefix, salt, sizeof (sha512_salt_prefix) - 1) == 0)
    return __sha512_crypt (key, salt);
#endif

  return __crypt_r (key, salt, &_ufc_foobar);
}
`````

这个函数和linux-pam里的Goodcrypt_md5用法一样，都是：

`pp = crypt("passwordinputed", "$1$somesalt$hashedstring");`

返回的结果也是同样的形式，

`pp = "$1$somesalt$justgeneratedhashstring"`

然后比较原来的hash和新生成的pp。

linux-pam/modules/pam_unix/passverify.c
`````c
PAMH_ARG_DECL(int verify_pwd_hash,
        const char *p, char *hash, unsigned int nullok)
{

...

                /* the moment of truth -- do we agree with the password? */
                D(("comparing state of pp[%s] and hash[%s]", pp, hash));

                if (pp && strcmp(pp, hash) == 0) {
                        retval = PAM_SUCCESS;
                } else {
                        retval = PAM_AUTH_ERR;
                }

...


	return retval;
}
`````


shadow/contrib/pwdauth.c
`````c
/*
 * Verify the password.  The system-dependent shadow support is here.
 */
static int
password_auth_ok(pw, pass)
        const struct passwd *pw;
        const char *pass;
{

...

        if (*pass || *cp)
                result = (strcmp(crypt(pass, cp), cp) == 0);
        else
                result = 1;  /* user with no password */

...

        return result;
}
`````

可以看出最终认证的方式都是strcmp。
并且hash都是8字节对齐的，这个和具体的hash方式有关。
对于md5来说，分割符号是$1$后面还有个$，加起来是4个字节。但也有这种$2b$。
salt从manual上看长度是个范围，但在ubuntu上，可能是8字节或16字节。

整个字串基本能确定是4字节对齐，但不一定是8字节对齐。所以在64位机器上，需要具体看strcmp的实现。


